General terms of use
Access to and use of this website is subject to the following terms of use ("Terms of Use"). You are kindly requested to read the Terms of Use carefully before using this website in any way.
By using this service, you are expressly agreeing with these terms. If you have problems reading these Terms of Use or if you do not agree to their content, please do not continue to use this website.
1.	Purpose and content of the website

This website provides access to the Federal Trust Services (FTS). FTS is a service that allows you to easily and reliably integrate electronic signatures, stamps and time stamps into your data or documents.
The service provides for the secure uploading of the data or documents to be signed, the definition of the desired signature, the effective signing of the data or documents by means of eID/alien registration card, and finally the receipt of the digitally signed data or documents.  
FTS allows you to place a qualified digital signature without prior authentication using the electronic identity card or alien registration card (with PIN code). FTS supports the signature formats defined in the European norms and standards. FTS can be used on the latest and penultimate version of Windows, macOS or Linux, in combination with Firefox, Chrome (or Microsoft Edge) or Safari. FTS can be operated on other browsers and versions, but we cannot provide any guarantees. 
2. Contact details
Should you require further information or wish to submit comments, please contact FPS Policy and Support (BOSA) at the following address: Federal Public Service Policy and Support, Simon Bolivarlaan 30 (WTC III), 1000 Brussels, at servicedesk.dto@bosa.fgov.be or call  02/740.80.27.
3. Nature of the information on offer
The information which is available on this website is of a general nature. The information has not been adapted to suit personal or specific circumstances and cannot, therefore, serve as personal, professional or legal advice. This website and the material on offer are available ‘as found’, and no guarantees are given. You make use of the website and the information it contains entirely at your own risk.
If you require specific or personal advice, you should always consult authorised staff at FPS P&S.
4. Liability
FPS P&S makes every effort to ensure that the information supplied is complete, correct, accurate and up to date. Despite these efforts, inaccuracies may occur. In the event that the information provided contains inaccuracies, or if certain information is unavailable, attempts will be made to rectify this as quickly as possible. If you should find inaccuracies in the information provided, you can always contact FPS P&S.
FPS P&S uses every reasonable means to secure the website and to limit any inconveniences caused by technical faults as much as possible. However, FPS P&S cannot exclude the possibility that incorrect technical actions or unauthorised interventions take place. For these reasons, FPS P&S cannot guarantee that access to the website will not be interrupted or will not be otherwise disrupted by such problems.
FPS P&S can also not be held liable under any circumstances for direct or indirect damages arising from the use of this website or the information and services provided. 
5. Intellectual property
Unless otherwise indicated, the texts on this website may be reproduced and communicated to the public free of charge, provided the source is acknowledged. It shall be expressly stated if prior permission must be obtained for the reproduction or communication of certain texts to the public.
6. Uploading of files to FTS

General
This site allows you to upload data or documents in order to place or validate electronic signatures.
For that reason, FPS P&S cannot exclude the possibility  that access to the service will not be interrupted or will not be otherwise disrupted by such problems. FPS P&S explicitly retains the right at any time and without prior warning to interrupt access to the service in order to trace or suppress possible cases of misuse or fraud or to solve technical or operational malfunctions.
If  FPS P&S  determines or may reasonably suspect that you do not comply with the Terms of Use  of this service, FTS P&S may at any time and without prior warning deny you access to the service.
Your obligations when using the service
By uploading data or files, you authorise the FPS P&S to use them for the sole purpose of placing an electronic signature, stamp or time stamp. The FPS P&S will not make any other use of the data or files, nor will it retain them. 
You guarantee that the information that you upload does not infringe the intellectual or other rights of third parties and that you will fully indemnify and compensate FPS P&S for any direct or indirect damages caused to third parties as a result of such infringement.
Under no circumstances are you allowed to upload information that is of racist, hateful, insulting or pornographic nature or that is contrary to good morals and/or existing Belgian legislation or is infected with a virus or similar malicious software or that can otherwise be harmful to the FPS P&S and/or third parties. You are also not permitted to upload advertising, commercial advertisements and any other publicity material (hereinafter collectively referred to as "Inadmissible Information"). You shall fully indemnify and compensate the FPS P&S for any direct or indirect damages caused to third parties as a result of uploading such Inadmissible Information.
Moreover, you are not allowed to use the service  in any way that might disconnect, overload or impair the service, or adversely affect the user experience of another user.
7. Changes
FPS P&S reserves the right to make changes to these Terms of Use at any time. It is your responsibility to consult the relevant conditions from time to time. These Terms of Use were last amended and revised on 16 January 2022.
8. Protection of your personal data
FPS P&S respects your privacy. The details that you enter into the website will be treated confidentially. For more information, please consult our Privacy Statement [include link].
9. Applicable law and applicable court
These Terms of Use and the Privacy Statement are governed by Belgian law. By using this website, you agree that in the event of a dispute, only the courts and tribunals of Brussels are competent.


Privacy Statement
The FPS P&S ensures privacy and always acts in accordance with the provisions of the General Data Protection Regulation (EU) 2016/679 (GDPR). Please read this Privacy Statement to learn more about the manner  in which personal details are collected and processed on this website.
By using this service, you explicitly agree to the manner in which FPS P&S collects and processes personal data, as described below.
1. Security
FPS P&S  is committed to taking all suitable technical and organisational measures in order to protect your personal data from destruction, loss, unintended changes, damage or publication.
To guarantee this security, FPS P&S uses, among other things, encryption of the communication between the server and your computer, logging of the various actions that take place.
2. Processing of personal data
Although you can use the service without having to enter your personal details, you will have to enter your eID/alien registration card to sign your documents. When placing a signature, the FPS P&S checks the validity of your eID/alien registration card without processing further information. By using the service, you expressly agree to the above. The FPS P&S does not process any further information regarding your person.
FPS P&S does not use cookies on sign.belgium.be. 
5. Log files
In addition to the data mentioned above, when you visit this website the FPS P&S  records data for technical support, for statistical purposes and for the further improvement of this website. Data thus collected are in no way linked to your personal data.
6. Changes
FPS P&S reserves the right to amend the Privacy Statement at any time. This Privacy Statement was last amended and reviewed on 02 August 2022.
7. Contact details
FPS P&S ensures the confidentiality and security of the data. If you require further information or wish to submit comments, please contact FPS P&S at the following address: Federal Public Service Policy and Support, Simon Bolivarlaan 30 (WTC III), 1000 Brussels, at servicedesk.dto@bosa.fgov.be or call  02/740.80.27.
The FPS P&S has appointed a data Protection Officer, who monitors the confidentiality and protection of the data and compliance with the GPDR requirements. You can contact the administrator at privacy@bosa.fgov.be for all your queries concerning privacy protection. Incidents and complaints may be sent to privacyincident@bosa.fgov.be.
